Oh everyone who is watching this with
this group in particular here are all of
our discomfort ah seeking discomfort
this is not what I do about it
don't do this at home directly like
copying don't do it
these guys are experienced
[Music]
he's able to withstand extreme cold this
guy run to the top of Everest in his
underwear he says it's easy experts are
baffled how is he able to survive wim
HOF or as some of you may know him
- the Iceman he might well be one of the
most unique humans currently alive the
past 20 years he's been breaking
countless endurance records mostly
around his ability to resist extreme
cold temperatures from spending nearly
two hours submerged in ice water without
his core body temperature changing to
climbing past the Death Zone of Mount
Everest barefoot wearing nothing but
shorts while running a full marathon in
the desert of Namibia without drinking
water he's surpassed what anyone thought
the human body was capable of over and
over and for a while that's what he was
known for as the Iceman the freak of
nature who breaks impossible records but
after a series of independent scientific
studies he's proven that with his
specific training we're all capable of
pushing our minds and bodies way past
what was thought possible thank you and
he calls it the wim HOF method how is it
possible for a human being to be exposed
in an ice bath for one hour and 44
minutes wim HOF is changing scientists
understanding of how the body works
he recently shook the scientific
community after injecting himself and a
few of his students with the form of an
infectious ecoli bacteria we saw less
fever he had less flu-like symptoms and
he also had lessened concentrations of
inflammatory proteins in his blood
together they fought off the disease the
breathing and meditation both of which
are major pillars but his method leaving
the world confused and us like many
others fascinated while wim may seem
superhuman and a total anomaly to the
human race there are now millions of
people around the world practicing his
method
his records and his life raises the
question what if there is a world of
untapped potential and all of us just
waiting to be released an ability to tap
into deeper parts of our brain to regain
control and will power over our own
bodies and do things we never thought we
were capable of before and so after
meeting women in LA a few months ago and
hearing about all his claims we were
fully intrigued by the possibility of
unlocking our full potential we felt
like we had no the choice but to fly out
to his training camp in Poland and
experience it in person our goal was to
understand whether wim is simply a
madman with superhuman abilities whether
he has actually made a groundbreaking
discovery about what the human mind is
capable of we brought a group of friends
and filmmakers to help capture the
process and even though we arrived in
Poland with over three years of
experience and seeking discomfort none
of us could have expected the wild
journey for answers we were about to
embark on and it begins as a starter you
don't have to wear a t-shirt you can
wear a jacket amazing we haven't done
like the breathing I don't run less that
sure let's tackle mate this is good
midnight last night it progressively
kept getting colder Wow Zack how are you
you're refusing to kind of show any
emotion about everything they said that
everything that is happening there is
patiently waiting just because someone's
message is good doesn't mean that the
messenger themself is like anything
special said you have to fully believe
in order for it to work that's me I'm a
simple man yet I'm going to change the
world we are made to believe that a
whole lot of things a lot of crap is
normal like war and disease and mental
disorders tomato sort of playful like
yeah that's life life it can be a tough
[ __ ] and all that [ __ ] I don't believe
that within four days I will bring you
guys into
a state of mind more than ever you have
experienced people making you able to go
in very stressful environments like a
freezing cold mountain or even
over-insured
for hours in four days it's not like a
training its awakening and in this
awakening we show the world that we have
so much more power already here right
now and it needs just a couple of steps
to disc cover
welcome to climbing the mountain what
kind of gear are we gonna have yeah just
a couple of spikes under your shoes and
as shorts a little short yeah yeah
Shores enough to cover at all you know
how long is it gonna take to go up you
don't know oh it depends on the mountain
a mountain in sunshine is it very nice
you can stay for hours there's nothing
going on but you will not do that when
there is a wind chill of 100 kilometers
it's like a whip on you don't stay
picnicking while a whip is going on you
just want to go as fast as possible and
maybe it's not even possible the
mountain is a mirror of our capacities
coming up and we got so much more within
us and the mountain will just bring it
out but before that is going to happen
we're gonna pray lude it we're there a
nice splash you better be ready are you
ready do you feel ready okay that's
exactly what I need a natural expression
let's do this
you want to ring the bells right off the
bat we got a feeling that wim had no
intention of treating us like a regular
group normally he begins by teaching his
breathing and meditation techniques that
allow you to cope with the extreme cold
but his most recent study has indicated
that this may be possible to be achieved
all through the power of the mind so
instead of training us he thought it'd
be an interesting idea for the first day
to start off with a real-life trial of
that study by taking a straight to cliff
jumping into ice water he doesn't
usually do this where we go in without
any breath work he doesn't specifically
we've been told if you're in water
without training that temperature for
three miniature body shuts down yeah I
mean all he said was to put on free
control so I'm assuming we're about to
get really cold I'm down for the
breathing and the training I'm not down
for the jumping with nothing and no
training and no breathing nothing just
full-on noobs all right we are about to
go for our first adventure with wim to
the waterfall we're jumping from six
meters up we have never we have not done
any training
fights no no cross right here that is in
the long time exposure into cold that is
the one where we jump from down into the
ice water zero degrees and floating so
it's cold in a normal we're about to
discover the definition of freezing your
nuts off what do we do dude I've never
jumped in cold water why are we doing a
cliff jump six meters up freezing shovel
yeah
[Music]
haha
good tape a bloody good tape
yes exist comfort power powers with us
as we were celebrating completing his
initiation without us realizing it wim
was carefully watching us and our
reactions were about to completely
determine how our next three days would
pan out
I've never liked pushing my body like
that before like every single voice
inside your mind is just like screaming
at you like are you insane you cannot
think about nothing then survive and
when you are in the cold you don't think
about you're indulging into your emotion
and you brought a broken heart and all
those things you just got to survive
thus you learned to control your emotion
today when we went to jump off the cliff
you said that the anxiety and the fear
that we're facing is natural yes what
would you say your relationship with
anxiety and fear is today it was great
day because I saw not only me having fun
day at the wharf but you're holding this
ballgame is going to be good he's coming
for days so how I'm dealing with this
anxiety there is no anxiety there's only
power and that power is going to be ours
and it's gonna be our mind and my
challenge these four days is to bring
you to the food for understanding by
feeling of your of the power of your own
mind and send that into the world then
it is there that we not point to
heaven's door inside and that you are
the master of your own brain you are the
owner of your own brain got that your
own mind your own happiness strength and
help is your our first day in Poland
came to an end without training we went
to bed hopeful that the next day would
finally start preparing for the intense
climb up the mountain in three days but
when we woke up we were told at whim and
other plans
normally I don't you
I go gradually into step by step but not
with this group they are all about
discomfort seeking discomfort is exactly
what I needed so we jumped straight into
the depth which normally I do absolutely
not it's bringing heart attacks to
people because the vascular system is is
not right but in this case I could
specifically with this group and want to
try out the last study I've shown that
it is all in the morning
we are built to be happy strong and
healthy we got all the tools but they
are not awakened but who is going to
wake them up that's us
this week we're gonna do things I've
never done because I've been a guinea
pig on my life and I changed the books
now I'm going to do that with yes
feeling here's the plan
there is no plan we do whatever whim
decides we were supposed to have do
something up here but apparently we're
gonna go downstairs to figure out what
his plan is he tells you to jump in the
water you jump in the water if he tells
you to sleep you sleep if he wants to
slap you in the face you get slapped in
the face that's what a master does women
told me to do that dude
[Laughter]
I woke up at half past three
and since then I've been thinking oh
[ __ ] this is gonna go a complete
different way we don't want a another
vice documentary who wants something new
in its ice pack for you guys ten minutes
all of you set you mind the latest study
showed we are able to tap into the
deepest part of the break just at will
we will show and without you how to
handle the brain how to handle the mind
set your mind your mind will make your
body able and survive from a ten minutes
ice bath as a treat we come back up here
and we have a great festival in the
sauna and then you get food okay Maura
we gotta do breathing we make it a short
cut because you guys all from going out
of comfort into the discomfort there is
the comfort I will show you what is
comfort we were supposed to learn the
breathing techniques to cope with the
cold today but he decided to skip that
step and just throw it straight into
call and see if we can just put the
power of our mind adapt to it what does
that mean man I was freezing when I had
my toes in the snow I'm I supposed to
sit in the free ice bath it's a very
long time in ice water involves
breathing
a big part of it we're surpassing that
and just trying to go straight through
the mindset I've never died like a
school I talk about the breath you know
it's a nice the whole point of us being
here is to learn when I feel like we're
just being thrown into [ __ ] and being
like the power of your mind
just shut up and do it when your house
is on fire
you'll run fast you don't need to think
you go because adrenaline is there so
it's like the house is on fire it's not
on fire
but you are follow me in this and it's
gonna happen begin to doubt and it is
something else is gonna happen so is
there something physically I do or
something mentally delenn need to do -
like Center my mind just follow the
breath yeah the only thing is don't
interfere what the body is able to do
with what the body is able to do
adaptation meditation is dynamic it's
real it's a deeper part of the brain
having a sufficient blood flow now they
studied mindfulness of research and they
saw that within 10 minutes what we do
people even after years of training in
mindfulness are not able to get into you
know put the signs out of there and get
back to your sense you are the one in
command over yourself got that three
minutes is hypothermia right yeah now
we're doing ten minutes without training
okay and the last year we were in the
water for probably 30 second and I never
in my wildest dreams thought that I
could stay in cold water for three more
than like two minutes
this is testing every assumption I've
ever made about myself in the cold I
hate the cold and in a way there's like
a method to his madness you know at
first I was I was mad at him I was like
why aren't you training us and then the
other part of me after a while thinking
about it was like [ __ ] just happens in
life and you have no control over and
there's no training you just have to
like react the house is on fire what are
you gonna do
survival actually surviving is something
that we never do you never have to
survive you know you have to survive
your when you were living at
hyperthermia like if you lose control
over your body you will literally just
collapse
I'm already freezing go down we had to
pack on your thighs long exhalation and
let the body do what the body is able to
do
George interfere let it go you got it
yeah are you ready yeah it's just
talking to Thomas let's have a say yes
here's what I've come to terms with
without training without any of this the
only thing we can rely on is our own
mind if we can accomplish this something
that either genuinely think is
impossible right now then we should be
able to push our minds beyond anything
else in regular life
[Music]
whoa nice you can do this come on
get them on your thighs touch feel the
palms of your hands they are war this is
the way you learn how to deal with
utmost trust
let it go you are thinking
[Music]
Oh
No
[Applause]
[Music]
oh my god just how do you feel
hey guys your 10 minutes like no
preparation just the power of demands
dealing with stress severe stress I have
never ever seen Thomas like in that much
the skin that much pain that much
discomfort like the vein on on his on
the side of his neck was just popping
I've never seen like that suffering on a
human space yeah I'm so proud of Thomas
you just feel so alive like all your
primal instincts just kick in to save
you I could do this again and they're
just a nice man not born for this
weather but [ __ ] it survive anything I
can't feel my hands I can't feel my feet
is it a myth that if you stay a minute
and a half to two minutes and freezing
water like that you just get hypothermia
there are people in cooter collapse
because they are vascular system is not
right okay you're not in good condition
but I prepared you and you walking well
now you feel good amazing just ten
minutes no preparation just the power of
the mind
[Music]
thanks around the corner opening up so
your extremities the blood from your
extermination from your arms your legs
are now mixing in with your warmth or
blood like I did not shiver for a second
in the cold water but here you're like
my entire body is just going
[Applause]
in the water I was picturing like
headlines being like youtuber loses his
hands in Polish I don't know I was like
so scared for a lot of it like I in
legitimately thought I was gonna get out
and no longer have control of my hands
when I get out I couldn't move them I
was looking at my hands and they
couldn't I couldn't fold him in they
were stuck here I've never experienced
that before are you proud of yourself
though yeah definitely I legitimately
was convinced I would get out there's
several moments when I was like alright
I'm standing up now and what made you
stay is probably you guys like looking
around being like if you guys can do it
I can do it too
what do you think of Thomas he sucked
that's it that's that Thomas was great
he had an issue but look how he got with
this focus through his trauma through
his issue and you've got an issue you
think looking at this hey man you follow
Thomas during this wildly unpredictable
day wim put us into ice water five times
longer than what he ever usually does
with fully trained groups and by the end
of it we were promised that the
following morning wim was finally going
to introduce us to his famous breathing
technique to help us cope with a cold
too early for this incessant coughing
[Music]
finally the breathing is gonna be
leading the team for about 45 minutes
and okay are you relaxed just move your
body a little shake it you know you get
the [ __ ] outta me I mean I wake up I'm
gonna do my best and everybody is gonna
possibly do three minutes without air in
the lungs so think and feel as if you
fill up your belly through your mouth or
nose doesn't matter Julian then the
chest and then into your heart and then
you let it go barely
Chuck high letting go barely just hard
letting go
barely Julian like the sea waves on the
shore and letting go letting go is a
round number one if you feel
light-headed loosen the body tingling
it's all alright breathe into it
intensify whatever you feel intensify
and three boolean
as we're finally starting to learn the
method I think you might be a good time
to explain what it consists of there's
three main components breathing
meditation and gradual cold exposure and
its main objective is to awaken the
deeper parts of the brain that wim
claims we've lost control over first
Wims meditation technique differs from
traditional practices by preparing the
mind and body to stay strong and calm
during situations of stress when the
fight or flight response is activated he
then gradually takes people through cold
exposure countless independent studies
have shown that cold exposure boosts the
immune system and decreases inflammation
in the body which is also why pro
athletes use it all the time for
recovery but one believes the cold can
do so much more and lastly his breathing
technique is designed to take deep
inhales and gentler exhales in order to
take in more air than we're letting out
this allows your body to function at a
higher level than normal and can get you
to hold your breath for three to four
minutes this process can in some cases
cause a wide variety of physical and
emotional responses
[Music]
all right
breathe and relax it's deep enough and
three full yet letting go - for the end
letting go
148 letting go at some point I'll just
just get me out of my body I feel
amazing
I've never been able to like hold my
breath longer than like 45 seconds so
holding it for three minutes was psyche
trippy it felt like ten seconds like
you'd lose track of time like I'm
holding my breath and then he's like
good that's three minutes as we thought
we were finally going through the full
wim HOF method he decided to fully flip
the script again and skip the rest of
the training and go straight to the
mountain shut the [ __ ] up and let's
climb this mountain
it's about do it leave the mountain
alone with your pathetic thoughts over
done and now we go up the mountain and
do it buddy already knows what it is
going up I guess it is so cold outside
and it's snowing and we're about to
climb this mountain hopefully we'll make
it to the top
[Music]
so when decided to completely reverse
the the whole set up for us so he
started with showing us the power of our
minds and then training us but even with
all of that he still decided to skip day
three of training which is usually more
more breathwork and like kind of ice
baths and take us straight up the
mountain they've never done this with a
group before ever and all the group's
they've had here for training is the
first time he's done it like this it's
like we're the guinea pigs for it I mean
the only thing we can rely on is
ourselves at this point like and each
other right like it's just like the
verge of being reckless I mean it is
pretty much reckless and I think here in
the college is it but I guess we'll see
[Music]
already here let it snow let it snow let
it snow that and let us go talk so
that's what we do yeah there you go
hey pep talk is over man we are just
going to do it so here it is Oh guys
know what to do yeah what is it one step
another one another one and then we
reach a talk this is it
[ __ ] now or never Thomas's [ __ ] is the
fig I got home did nobody's even skiing
that's Hough not figured it's cold it's
hot it's hot how does this make any
[ __ ] sense
somebody tell me please no it doesn't
none of it does
we take today where it's the worst
wetter conditions possible no [ __ ] did
my mom is gonna watch this and she's
[ __ ] kill me [ __ ] are we doing it's -
[ __ ] 3 or 4 Celsius climbing a
freaking mountain in Poland right we
could be in Hawaii right now you know
Kobe in Hawaii [ __ ] it
[Music]
can we cross anyone right now
coming up or down they think we're
freaking but it's just like eight people
shirtless walking up this reason to
thing I mean maybe we should take that
advice and do a stop okay okay just
focus on like one step at a time that's
the only thing that works for me right
now I think about the ocean
two hours ahead of us makes me very sad
[Music]
for through the way they're starting to
feel it on my back mostly but just
trying to focus on the breathing and
just follow winds footsteps keeps you
distracted just thinking of your breath
this is like slow pain whereas ice-bath
was instant shock and so if you keep
keep your calm I think you can you can
make it up
[Music]
good job Bridget good man element major
in an ages it's a power of the moment
coming to you and then suddenly the bear
buddy is able to do so much more
[Music]
nice ball with sharp just like a plunger
boys this is getting colder and colder
how because we're climbing up a mountain
as well we're getting more tired a
little bit more altitude would you feel
that that's a whip straight to the chest
ah ah this fresh snow it's not helping
the situation though it's the fingers
feel like blocks
[Music]
so [ __ ] win we just got to the point
when the wind is really starting to
catch up and there's snow hitting it
hard
so come look at these trees this is so
crazy
let's go max oh my god
[Music]
we're about 1900 meters in elevation
it's just almost like it's over it's
5800 feet and at this point that's no
it's also possible Thomas is gone just
wants to [ __ ] run down there and I
second that let's go a few hundred
meters from the mountain summit we got
stuck the snow levels were getting up to
our waist and making the call to
continue the track to the top became
extremely unsafe amidst the intensifying
weather conditions together with the
windchill he this more than minus 20 and
it is impossible to to go after the snow
it's gonna be yeah we bloody did it oh
yeah we bloody did it work continuing
past this point would have put us in
real danger
but in our eyes and in Wims eyes we did
it
[Music]
it took us a silent climb down of
reflection and a day of warming back up
to fully understand the purpose we began
to realize is that Wims objective this
entire week hadn't been to teach us his
method but instead to show us that even
without it the human mind is capable of
so much more than we ever thought
possible that we were capable of so much
more than we thought possible and that
no matter what challenge were going
through in our lives we should never
lose hope and underestimate our ability
to shine and find the strength within us
to succeed
we spent the morning after the climb
during a group reflection with wim and
he decided to end our trip where it all
began
I wanted to were complete yeah make it
full circle and so now I want to entice
you to ballistic basically he wants us
to take these torches light them up and
walk back to that waterfall that you
guys everybody jumped off the first day
normally I go and do not exceed no
longer than two minutes in ice water
immersion you guys did five times you
guys jumped directly from seven meters
down even gainers I saw hey what was
going on here because you have three
years of working together or even more
always going into discomfort that means
you have gone out of the normal way of
thinking and that made you for me
perfect to be my guinea pigs
for new research pioneering because we
gotta revolutionize something in this
world and show that we are made of much
more than we think and for that we have
to dive into the telephone yeah that you
got fear right now cuz this is normal
this is nature this is for the guys who
venture who pioneer who go past their
fear and their controlled way of
thinking they go past and show new ways
new directions and that was the aim of
these last four days you guys did
bloody great to unlock your potential we
have given ourselves fully the last four
days to show new directions past fear
and past fear there is a lot more coming
to us you are the new generation you are
to youth you got to change this world
now only luck your own power of your own
mind because it's so beautiful
[Music]
[Applause]
you